alright guys it's time for another PGN
piano lessons gone nuts video and we're
going to be working on octaves today
going to be showing you how to to play
octaves better and easier ok I'm a
classically trained pianist so I've
learned some things along the way my my
35 years of playing the piano so the
first thing we want to do is make sure
we have a high wrist if you're playing
octaves okay I'm going to stand up
because going to be easier for me to
play that way but you have a high risk
see normally would be like this okay but
four octaves you want to have one a bend
at the rest and come up a little bit
like that and it's all like they saying
the wrist a lot of things are in the
wrist when you're throwing frisbee when
you hear racquetball and you it's all in
the wrist
so how still my forearm is and I just
have my my thumb and my pinky in that
mole come on now so a high wrist is one
thing that will help now when you're
playing fast doctors or chromatic
so a good way to practice it thank you
so get that wrist up the second thing is
when you play you want to watch your
thumb you can't really watch your pinky
too so watch your thumb and then measure
with your pinky you measure that
distance and you memorize how it feels
to have that distance then your hold a
cup in your hand and you you know you
know your favorite cup how how that cup
is you measure it okay it's the same
thing with this you'd measure how far to
that pinky uh-huh
it's a feel okay and so we measure the
pinky up some more videos are done not
compressing okay so you watch your thumb
and you measure the bullet pinky
if the pinky gets off or messes up you
can fix it you can hear if it's higher
low and fix it but watch your thumb when
you play the octave all right so a good
way to practice your octaves you can do
with both hands and I make it in the way
here but I have to try triplets
now so those are you know fat like fast
octaves or point that if you were going
to do legato octaves which are smooth
oxes octaves legato just means smooth
and connected you want to learn how to
use three four and five when you do
octaves if you can reach it
some people's hands are so small that
they can't do anything other than one in
five four octaves but if you can reach
it start using that fourth finger let me
give you an example if I do a chromatic
octave let's start with a fifth finger
when I go up on these my fourth finger
we're still gonna use my thumb on all of
them fourth finger five four but this
something happens when we do octaves our
ear well he will hear the whole thing
legato as long as we make one of the
notes legato if that makes sense even
though the thumb is not legato because I
can't really do it I can't want to slide
off and slide off like you but four
notes what I can't really do my god oh
it will sound without oh as long as I
make the top one smooth five four five
four five five they're surprised legato
octaves that way
and come down sometimes you have to do
five five now three four five would be
like if you had AC ABC see that if you
can reach it some people can't reason
that's fine
five four three five four three five
four three cuz of you go
and three more so get that three four
five in there and you do ligado watch it
so those three things are my suggestions
on playing octaves to help you playing
better and easier now make sure you
don't stretch your hand out of you can't
reach two three four five
don't worry about if you get a little
little sore from doing them that's
normal if it's something you haven't
done before but you don't want to do it
too much and then hurt your your
ligaments and your muscles in your hands
so take it easy all right so there's
your piano lessons gone nuts video for
the day right answer your questions I
hope you guys enjoy it I'll talk to you
later